KCD Berlin 2022-06-30 demo (#1)
flatcar-linux/flatcar-demos: kcd-berlin-2022-06-30/README.md

# Flatcar Container Linux basic intro demo for KCD Berlin, 2022

YAML config contains
1. user "caddy" set-up
2. inline HTML and separate GIF for a static website
3. Systemd unit for running caddy to serve the file
4. Deactivate automated reboots

We ship a custom `flatcar_production_qemu.sh` because at the time of writing the script did not support forwarding custom ports.
The script forwards connections to host port 8080 to container port 80 so we can serve websites.

## Provisioning Demo

Download a Flatcar release (NOT the current / most recent one) from [here](https://www.flatcar.org/releases/).
Use an older version to demo updates.

1. Create ignition from YAML:
   ```shell
   cat talk.yaml | docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/files -i ghcr.io/flatcar-linux/ct:latest --files-dir /files  > ignition.json
   ```
2. Start flatcar
   ```shell

>    ./flatcar_production_qemu.sh -i ignition.json -nographic

Author: 😲 This is nice, thank you!

>    ./flatcar_production_qemu.sh -i ignition.json -nographic

Author: Added.

Don't forget to also download the accompanying `flatcar_production_qemu.sh`; we'll need it for the demo.

Move the image to a new name to keep a pristine version; copy it to the original name to have a working copy.
```shell
mv flatcar_production_qemu_image.img flatcar_production_qemu_image.img.pristine
cp flatcar_production_qemu_image.img.pristine flatcar_production_qemu_image.img
```

1. Create ignition from YAML:
   ```shell
   cat talk.yaml | docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/files -i ghcr.io/flatcar-linux/ct:latest --files-dir /files  > ignition.json
   ```
2. Start flatcar. Kudos to @pothos for the cool port forwarding hack.
   ```shell
   ./flatcar_production_qemu.sh -i ignition.json -p 8080-:80,hostfwd=tcp::2222 --nographic
   ```
3. Point your browser to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).
4. SSH into the instance
   ```shell
   ssh -o "UserKnownHostsFile=/dev/null" -o "StrictHostKeyChecking=no" core@localhost -p 2222
   ```
5. Show `/srv/www/html` with the files created, `systemctl status kcd-demo-webserver`, and `docker ps`.

## Update demo

> Using the instance provisioned above we'll check for updates, stage, and activate (reboot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the instance provisioned above we'll check for updates, stage, and activate (reboot).
While the default behavior of Flatcar is to reboot automatically, this has been turned off in the Ignition config (see `reboot_strategy` in the YAML file).
```

It might be necesssary to re-provision (i.e. start from a pristine downloaded image) depending on the time spent on the instance above.

> (Instance might have staged the update already).

Reviewer: An alternative is to discard the update: https://www.flatcar.org/docs/latest/setup/releases/update-strategies/#double-update-workaround
```
update_engine_client -reset_status
```

Author: Silly me - I'm so behind with update_engine development I have entirely forgotten we can do this now. We should cover it here, I'll add a respective statement.

# Flatcar Container Linux basic intro demo for KCD Berlin, 2022

YAML config contains
1. user "caddy" set-up
2. inline HTML and separate GIF for a static website
3. Systemd unit for running caddy to serve the file
4. Deactivate automated reboots

## Provisioning Demo

Download a Flatcar release (NOT the current / most recent one; use an older version to demo updates) from [here](https://www.flatcar.org/releases/).
Don't forget to also download the accompanying `flatcar_production_qemu.sh`; we'll need it for the demo.

Move the image to a new name to keep a pristine version; copy it to the original name to have a working copy.
```shell

> mv flatcar_production_qemu_image.img flatcar_production_qemu_image.img.pristine

Reviewer 2: I have the habit to keep the compressed image to avoid making a copy:
```
bzip2 --decompress --keep flatcar_production_qemu_image.img.bz2
```

(same for the image produced by the SDK actually)

Author: It's a trade-off CPU vs. disk space; decompressing the image takes quite a bit of time.

cp flatcar_production_qemu_image.img.pristine flatcar_production_qemu_image.img
```

1. Create ignition from YAML:
   ```shell
   cat talk.yaml | docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/files -i ghcr.io/flatcar-linux/ct:latest --files-dir /files  > ignition.json
   ```
2. Start flatcar. Kudos to @pothos for the cool port forwarding hack.
   ```shell
   ./flatcar_production_qemu.sh -i ignition.json -p 8080-:80,hostfwd=tcp::2222 --nographic
   ```
3. Point your browser to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).
4. SSH into the instance
   ```shell
   ssh -o "UserKnownHostsFile=/dev/null" -o "StrictHostKeyChecking=no" core@localhost -p 2222
   ```
5. Show `/srv/www/html` with the files created, `systemctl status kcd-demo-webserver`, and `docker ps`.

## Update demo

Using the instance provisioned above we'll check for updates, stage, and activate (reboot).
While the default behavior of Flatcar is to reboot automatically, this has been turned off in the Ignition config (see `reboot_strategy` in the YAML file).

> It might be necesssary to re-provision fro scratch (i.e. start from a new copy of the pristine downloaded) depending on the time spent on the instance above since the nstance might have staged the update already.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It might be necessary to re-provision fro scratch (i.e. start from a new copy of the pristine downloaded) depending on the time spent on the instance above since the instance might have staged the update already.
```
